Security in the News Presentation
You will work in groups of three to create a VoiceThread presentation on a security event in the news of your
choosing. The presentation should be well organized and rehearsed and give a clear explanation of the topic.
You will submit the presentation in Sakai under the Security Videos link.
Presentation (80%)
Each group will create a 7 minute presentation using VoiceThread. All members of the group should have a
roughly equal speaking time, but you will be graded on the presentation as a whole. That means the three
speakers should develop and practice the talk together.
Some guidelines for creating the presentation follow.
● Introduce the event and provide motivation and context. Explain why it is an important or interesting
event for us to study.
● Provide the necessary background information as well as the technical details of the event.
● Explain the consequences of the event. Who is or was affected? What is the extent of the damage,
potential damage, or, in the case of a positive consequence, benefit?
● Provide a conclusion. What is the current state of affairs? Who is, or should be, taking responsibility for
the event? What is being done to address the situation? Are there any lessons learned?
● Use figures in place of text wherever possible. A good rule of thumb is 140 characters per slide.
● If you use or recreate figures or diagrams you find online cite them. Failing to cite someone else’s work
is plagiarism.
Specifics:
● The first slide should have the title, the group number, and the names of the group members along with
their PIDs
● Every slide should include the group number and page numbers in the footer.
Questions (10%)
The antepenultimate slide should have two questions for the class. The questions should capture what you
think are the key take-aways from the security event: if I were to test the class on the content of your video,
what would those exam questions be? (Don’t worry, I’m not testing you on these videos.)
This slide does not count against your 7-minute limit.
Comments on Others' Videos (10%)
The penultimate slide should be a comments slide. It can be blank except for the word “Comments.”
Watch your classmates' videos and leave a text comment on at least three of them using their “comments”
page. All the videos can be found in Sakai under the Security Videos link. Use the comment slide to ask
questions or make a comment. The comments and questions should be meaningful. For example, by asking a
follow-up question to a point made in the video or connecting something in the video to something we’ve
learned in class or to a point made in a different video.
This slide does not count against your 7-minute limit.
Your Contribution
The last slide should be a short statement explaining what each person contributed to the project. The division
of labor should be roughly equal. I use this slide to ensure that you all agree on how the work was done.
This slide does not count against your 7-minute limit.
Submission
You will submit the presentation to Sakai under the Security Videos link. Sakai does not allow group
submissions for VoiceThread projects. Therefore, one group member will submit the full presentation; the other
two members will submit only the title slide. Remember that the title slide should have the title, the group
number, and the names of the group members along with their PIDs.
Due Dates
10/20/2019 @ 11:59PM Group members and topic chosen
11/17/2019 @ 11:59PM Final video submitted to Sakai
12/04/2019 @ 11:59PM Comments on three of your classmates’ videos
